IELTS-Simon’s video course IELTS Speaking Part 2: describe a person Describe a person you know who does something well. You should say who this person is how you know this person what they do well and explain why you think this person is so good at doing this. Here’s my example description from the video lesson. It took me exactly 2 minutes, and I simply followed the points above. I tried to use some of my ‘theme’ language and a good example to demonstrate the ‘hard-working’ theme. I’m going to describe a friend of mine called James. James is an actor by profession. He’s in his thirties I think. He’s tall, he’s about my height, with dark hair and a friendly face; he’s always smiling and he cheers me up whenever I see him. I met James in… at university. He was my next-door neighbour in my hall of residence in the ﬁrst year of university. So on that ﬁrst day when we were moving in to our rooms, James introduced himself to me and we struck up a conversation, and got to know each other then, and we became good friends. James, as I said, is an actor, and I think he’s really good at that. He studied drama at university, where I met him, and since then he’s been working in theatre, he’s done some small independent ﬁlms, and he’s trying to get his break in television or in more popular, mainstream ﬁlms. And I think he’ll do it, because for me he seems… when I’ve been to see him in theatre productions or I’ve seen the short ﬁlms that he’s been in, he seems to be a really good actor to me. Why I think he’s good: well, I think it comes from his work ethic. He’s a really hard worker, he’s really persistent. He always said he wanted to be a successful actor; it’s not an easy profession to become successful in, but he has persisted, he’s really intense, he studies each role very carefully, he gets into character. I remember, for example, not being able to talk to him for about a week before one of his acting jobs because he was ‘in character’ - he didn’t want to lose focus. So he’s really intense, and that’s what I think makes him a great actor, and why I think he’ll be successful. See the next page for notes. IELTS-Simon’s video course Notes: The best vocabulary is highlighted in bold, italic writing. I think the examiner would be particularly impressed by “less common” items such as: - struck up a conversation - get his break in television (meaning ‘get his ﬁrst opportunity’) - mainstream ﬁlms - his work ethic - he has persisted - he’s really intense - he gets into character There is a lot of ‘content’, but I don’t worry about linking. Your focus should be on the task: describing the person using good ideas and vocabulary. Examiners are not impressed by memorised linking phrases! I wasn’t thinking about grammar, but I naturally used a variety of verb tenses: past, present, present perfect, and future tenses are all used correctly where necessary. Finally, this was my ﬁrst attempt. The next step is to go back to my ‘theme’ vocabulary for ‘hard- working’ and see if I can improve the description. If I did the description a second time, I would try to add words / phrases like: - motivated - determined to succeed - he always sees things through - he likes to challenge himself - he has a magnetic personality